applied_statistics/README.md, before:

# Resource in Applied Statistics

## books

[The Design and Analysis of Experiments, Fisher, 9th Edition, 1935 (orig), 1971](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/tree/main/applied_statistics/books/TheDesignOfExperimentsFisher1956)

[Experimental Design and Analysis, H.J. Seltman, 2018](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ExperimentalDesignAndAnalysisSeltman/ExperimentalDesignAndAnalysisBookSeltman.pdf)

[Generalized Linear Models, P. McCullagh, J.A. Nelder, 2nd Edition, 1983](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/GeneralizedLinearModels/GeneralizedLinearModels_McCullagh_Nelder_1983.pdf)

[Statistical Models, A.C. Davison, 2008](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/Davison_StatisticalModelsBook.pdf)

[Applied Multivariate Statistical Analysis, R.A. Johnson, D.W. Wichern, 2007](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/AppliedMultivariateStatisticalAnalysisJohnsonandWichern.pdf)

[Principles of Statistical Inference, D.R. Cox, 2006](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/AppliedMultivariateStatisticalAnalysisJohnsonandWichern.pdf)

[Probability and Random Processes, G.R. Grimmelt, D.R. Stirzaker, 3rd Edition, 2001](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ProbabilityandRandomProcessesGrimmelt2001Oxford.pdf)

[Probability and Measure, Patrick Billingsley, 3rd Edition, 1995](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ProbabilityAndMeasureBillingsleyThirdEdition.pdf)

[Bayesian Data Analysis, A. Gelman, JB Carlin, HS Stern, DB Dunson, A Vehtari, DB Rubin, 2021](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianDataAnalysisGellman/BayesianDataAnalysisThirdEdition.pdf)

[Bayesian Theory, J. Bernardo, A. Smith, 1994](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianTheoryBernardo/BayesianTheoryBernardo_wiley1994.pdf)

[Sampling and Estimation from Finite Population, Y. Tille, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/sampling-and-estimation-from-finite-populations-wiley-series-in-probability-and-statistics.pdf)

[Practical Sampling Techniques, Ranjan K. Som, 2nd Edition, 1995](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/practical-sampling-techniques-statistics-a-series-of-textbooks-and-monographs-2nbsped.pdf)

[Some Theory of Sampling, WE Deming, 1950](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/some-theory-of-sampling_Demming_1950.pdf)

[Introduction to Empirical Processes and Semi-parametric Inferences, M.R. Kosorok, 2006](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/IntroductionToEmpiricalProcessesAndSemiparametricInferencesKosorok2006.pdf)

[A Handbook of Sequential Analysis, B.K. Ghosh, 1st Edition, 1991](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SequentialAnalysis/handbook-of-sequential-analysis-statistics-a-series-of-textbooks-and-monographs-1nbsped.pdf)

[Statistical Inference Lecture Notes, GU 4204, Bhodhisattva Sen, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/StatisticalInferenceBodhisatvaSen2020/Statistical_Inference_Lecture_Notes_BodhisatvaSen_2020.pdf)

[Linear Statistical Inference and Its Applications, C.R. Rao, Second Edition, Penn State U., 1973](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/LinearStatisticalInferenceAndItsApplication/LinearStatisticalInferenceAndItsApplicationsRao1973.pdf)

[The Fundamentals of Heavy Tails: Properties, Emergence, and Estimation, Jayakrishnan Nair, Adam Wierman, and Bert Zwart, Draft, 2022](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/HeavyTails/The_Fundamentals_of_Heavy_Tails-Properties_Emergence_and_Estimation_Nair_Wierman_Draft.pdf)

[Bayesian Approaches to Shrinkage and Sparse Estimation, Dimitris Korobilis, Kenichi Shimizu, 2021](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Bayesian_Approaches_to_Shrinkage_and_Sparse_Estimation_Korobilis_2021.pdf)

[First Course in Statisitical Methods, Peter D. Hoff, 2009](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/FirstCourseInBayesianStatisticalMethods_Hoff_2009.pdf)

[Contemporary Bayesian Econometrics and Statistics, John Geweke, 2005](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Contemporary_Bayesian_Econometrics_and_Statistics_Geweke_2005.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometrics, Gary Koop, 2003](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Bayesian_Econometrics_Gary_Koop_2003.pdf)

[Proof: The Uncertain Science of Certainty, Adam Kucharski, 2025](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/Proof/Proof_the-uncertain-science-of-certainty-Kucharski_2025.pdf)

## articles

[On the Value of a Mean as Calculated by Sample, L. Isserlis, 1918](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTheValueOfAMeanAsCalculatedFromASampleIsserlis1918.pdf)

[Correlation and Causation, Sewall Wright, 1921](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Correlation_and_Causation_Wright_1921.pdf)

[On The Problem of the Most Efficient Tests of Statistical Hypotheses, J. Neyman, E.S. Pearson, 1933](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/NeymanPearson1933.pdf)

[Limiting Distributions of Certain Statistics, J.L. Doob, 1938](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/LimitingDistributionsOfCertainStatisticsDoob1938.pdf)

[On Stochastic and Order Relationships, H.B. Mann, A. Wald, 1943](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnStochasticLimitsAndOrderRelationshipsMann1943.pdf)

[Large Sample Tests of Statistical Hypotheses Concerning Several Parameters with Applications to Problems of Estimation, C.R. Rao, 1948](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Large_Sample_Tests_of_Statistical_Hypotheses_Concerning_Several_Parameters_with_Applications_to_Problems_of_Estimation_Rao_1948.pdf)

[The Monte Carlo Method, Nicholas Metropolis, S. Ulam, 1949](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MetropolisUlam_TheMonteCarloMethod.pdf)

[Empirical Bayes Approach to Statistics, Herbert Robbins, Columbia U., 1956](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Empirical_Bayes_Approach_to_Statistics_Robbins_Columbia_1956.pdf)

[On Transformation of Characteristic Functions, Eugene Lukasz, 1957](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTransformationOfAnalyticsFunctionsLukacs1957.pdf)

[On the Arithmetical Properties of Certain Entire Analytical Functions, Eugene Lukasz, 1966](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTheArithmeticPropertiesOfCertainEntireAnalyticFunctionsLukacs.pdf)

[Man as an Intuitive Statistician, C.R. Peterson, L.R. Beach, 1967](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Man_as_an_Intuitive_Statistician_Peterson_Beach_1967.pdf)

[The Empirical Characteristic Function and Its Applications, Andrey Feuerverger, Roman A. Mureika, 1977](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/EmpiricalCharacteristicFunctionAndItsApplicationsFeuerverger1977.pdf)

[MaximumLikelihood from Incomplete Data via the EM Algorithm, A. P. Dempster, N. M. Laird, D. B. Rubin, 1977](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MaximumLikelihood_from_Incomplete_Data_via_the_EM_Algorithm_Dempster77.pdf)

[Central Limit Theorems for Empirical Measures, R.M. Dudley, MIT, 1978](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/CentralLimitTheoremForEmpiricalMeasuresDudley1978.pdf)

[The Likelihood Ratio, Wald, and Lagrange Multiplier Tests, A. Buse, 1982](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/The_Likelihood_Ratio_Wald_and_Lagrange_Multiplier_Tests_Buse_1982.pdf)

[An Introduction to Likelihood Analysis, Andrew Pickl, 1985](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/BayesianLinearModeling/introduction-likelihood-analysis-Pickles-1985.pdf)

[Conversation with Persi Diaconis on Statistical Science, Morris H. DeGroot, 1986](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Conversation_with_Persi_Diaconis_DeGroot_1986.pdf)

[Tweedie's Formula and Selection Bias, Vradley Efron, Stanford U., 2011](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Tweedies_Formula_and_Selection_Bias_Effron_Stanford_2011.pdf)

[Cross-validatory Choice and Assessment of Statistical Prediction, M. Stone, University College London, 1974](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Cross-validatory_Choice_and_Assessment_of_Statistical_Predictions_Stone1974.pdf)

[Autoregressive Moving Average Model, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoregressive_moving-average_model)

[Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average Model, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoregressive_integrated_moving_average)

[Autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity with estimates of the variance of United Kingdom inflation, R. Engle, 1982](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Autoregressive_conditional_heteroscedasticity_with_estimates_of_the_variance_of_United_Kingdom_inflation_Engle_1982.pdf)

[Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity Process, Tim Bollerslev, 1986](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/GARCH_Bollerslev_1986.pdf)

[Tensors in Algebraic Statistics, L. Sierra, M. Casanellas, P. Zwiernik, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Tensors_in_algebraic_statistics_Sierra_2024.pdf)

[Approximations and Sampling of Multivariate Probability Distributions, S. Dolgov et al, 2019](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ApproximationandSamplingofMultivariateProbabilityDistributions.pdf)


### Baysian Linear Models

[Bayesian Analysis of Linear Models, Chapter 1, Lyle Broemeling, 1985](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/BayesianLinearModeling/BayesianAnalysisOfLinearModels_Broemeling_Chap1_1985.pdf)

[Lecture Notes on Linear Regression, Danillo Petti, U. of Essex, 2023-2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/lecture_notes/Lecture_notes_in_Linear_Regression_Danilo_Petti_2023.pdf)

### Mixture Modeling

[An Overview of Gaussian Mixture Models, Massimiliano Patachiolla, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/An_overview_of_Gaussian_Mixture_Models.pdf)

[Multivariate Normal Variance Mixtures, Eric Hintz et al, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Multivariate_Normal_Variance_Mixtures_Eric_Hintz_2024.pdf)

[Expectation Maximization algorithms for Multivariate Gaussian Mixture Models with Truncated and Censored Data, G. Lee, C. Scott, 2010](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/EM_algorithms_for_multivariate_Gaussian_mixture_models_with_truncated_and_censored_data_Lee_2010.pdf)

[Fit a Multivariate Gaussian Mixture Model by Using the Expectation Maximization Algorithm: the DO Loop, Rick Wicklin, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Fit_a_multivariate_Gaussian_mixture_model_by_using_the_expectation-maximization_algorithm-The_DO_Loop.pdf)

[Scale Mixtures of Normals, Andy Jones, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Scale_mixture_of_normals_Andy_Jones.pdf)

### Causality

[Correlation and Causation, Sewall Wright, 1921](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Correlation_and_Causation_Wright_1921.pdf)

[A natural experiment on the effect of herpes zoster vaccination on dementia, Markus Eyting et al, Nature, 2025](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Causality/A_natural_experiment_on_the_effect_of_herpes_zoster_vaccination_on_dementia_Eyting_2025.pdf)

### Econometrics

[An MCMC Approach to Classical Estimation, Victor Chernozhukov, Han Hong, 2023](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/An_MCMC_Approach_to_Classical_Estimation_Chrnozhukov_2023.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometrics, Victor Chernozhukov, 2003](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/Bayesian_Econometrics_Chernozhukov.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometric Methods, Joshua Chan et al, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/Bayesian_Econometric_Methods_Chan_2020.pdf)

## Statistical Distributions

[Laplace Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laplace_distribution)

[Cauchy Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution)

[Erlang Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erlang_distribution)

[Chi-squared distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chi-squared_distribution)

[Gamma distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma_distribution)

[Student t-distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Student%27s_t-distribution)

[Beta distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beta_distribution)

[Multivariate Gaussian Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_normal_distribution)

[Multivariate Student t distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_t-distribution)

[Mulitvariate Laplace distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_Laplace_distribution)

[Skew-normal distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skew_normal_distribution)

[A Generalization of the Skew-Normal Distribution - the Beta Skew-normal, V. Mamelli, M. Musio, 2011](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/StatisticalDistributions/A_Generalization_of_the_Skew-Normal_Distribution-the_Beta_Skewnormal_Mameli_2011.pdf)

[Skew-normal Posterior Approximations, J. Zhou et al, 2023](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/StatisticalDistributions/Skew-Normal_Posterior_Approximations_Zhou_2023.pdf)

Commit message:

Add lecture notes on statistics and information theory

applied_statistics/README.md, after:

# Resource in Applied Statistics

## books

[The Design and Analysis of Experiments, Fisher, 9th Edition, 1935 (orig), 1971](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/tree/main/applied_statistics/books/TheDesignOfExperimentsFisher1956)

[Experimental Design and Analysis, H.J. Seltman, 2018](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ExperimentalDesignAndAnalysisSeltman/ExperimentalDesignAndAnalysisBookSeltman.pdf)

[Generalized Linear Models, P. McCullagh, J.A. Nelder, 2nd Edition, 1983](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/GeneralizedLinearModels/GeneralizedLinearModels_McCullagh_Nelder_1983.pdf)

[Statistical Models, A.C. Davison, 2008](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/Davison_StatisticalModelsBook.pdf)

[Applied Multivariate Statistical Analysis, R.A. Johnson, D.W. Wichern, 2007](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/AppliedMultivariateStatisticalAnalysisJohnsonandWichern.pdf)

[Principles of Statistical Inference, D.R. Cox, 2006](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/AppliedMultivariateStatisticalAnalysisJohnsonandWichern.pdf)

[Probability and Random Processes, G.R. Grimmelt, D.R. Stirzaker, 3rd Edition, 2001](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ProbabilityandRandomProcessesGrimmelt2001Oxford.pdf)

[Probability and Measure, Patrick Billingsley, 3rd Edition, 1995](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ProbabilityAndMeasureBillingsleyThirdEdition.pdf)

[Bayesian Data Analysis, A. Gelman, JB Carlin, HS Stern, DB Dunson, A Vehtari, DB Rubin, 2021](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianDataAnalysisGellman/BayesianDataAnalysisThirdEdition.pdf)

[Bayesian Theory, J. Bernardo, A. Smith, 1994](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianTheoryBernardo/BayesianTheoryBernardo_wiley1994.pdf)

[Sampling and Estimation from Finite Population, Y. Tille, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/sampling-and-estimation-from-finite-populations-wiley-series-in-probability-and-statistics.pdf)

[Practical Sampling Techniques, Ranjan K. Som, 2nd Edition, 1995](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/practical-sampling-techniques-statistics-a-series-of-textbooks-and-monographs-2nbsped.pdf)

[Some Theory of Sampling, WE Deming, 1950](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SamplingTechniques/some-theory-of-sampling_Demming_1950.pdf)

[Introduction to Empirical Processes and Semi-parametric Inferences, M.R. Kosorok, 2006](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/IntroductionToEmpiricalProcessesAndSemiparametricInferencesKosorok2006.pdf)

[A Handbook of Sequential Analysis, B.K. Ghosh, 1st Edition, 1991](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/SequentialAnalysis/handbook-of-sequential-analysis-statistics-a-series-of-textbooks-and-monographs-1nbsped.pdf)

[Statistical Inference Lecture Notes, GU 4204, Bhodhisattva Sen, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/StatisticalInferenceBodhisatvaSen2020/Statistical_Inference_Lecture_Notes_BodhisatvaSen_2020.pdf)

[Linear Statistical Inference and Its Applications, C.R. Rao, Second Edition, Penn State U., 1973](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/LinearStatisticalInferenceAndItsApplication/LinearStatisticalInferenceAndItsApplicationsRao1973.pdf)

[The Fundamentals of Heavy Tails: Properties, Emergence, and Estimation, Jayakrishnan Nair, Adam Wierman, and Bert Zwart, Draft, 2022](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/HeavyTails/The_Fundamentals_of_Heavy_Tails-Properties_Emergence_and_Estimation_Nair_Wierman_Draft.pdf)

[Bayesian Approaches to Shrinkage and Sparse Estimation, Dimitris Korobilis, Kenichi Shimizu, 2021](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Bayesian_Approaches_to_Shrinkage_and_Sparse_Estimation_Korobilis_2021.pdf)

[First Course in Statisitical Methods, Peter D. Hoff, 2009](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/FirstCourseInBayesianStatisticalMethods_Hoff_2009.pdf)

[Contemporary Bayesian Econometrics and Statistics, John Geweke, 2005](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Contemporary_Bayesian_Econometrics_and_Statistics_Geweke_2005.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometrics, Gary Koop, 2003](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/BayesianEconometrics/Bayesian_Econometrics_Gary_Koop_2003.pdf)

[Lecture Notes on Statistics and Information Theory, John Duchi, 2023](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/Lecture_Notes_on_Statisitics_and_Information_Theory_Duchi_2023.pdf)

[Proof: The Uncertain Science of Certainty, Adam Kucharski, 2025](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/Proof/Proof_the-uncertain-science-of-certainty-Kucharski_2025.pdf)

## articles

[On the Value of a Mean as Calculated by Sample, L. Isserlis, 1918](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTheValueOfAMeanAsCalculatedFromASampleIsserlis1918.pdf)

[Correlation and Causation, Sewall Wright, 1921](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Correlation_and_Causation_Wright_1921.pdf)

[On The Problem of the Most Efficient Tests of Statistical Hypotheses, J. Neyman, E.S. Pearson, 1933](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/NeymanPearson1933.pdf)

[Limiting Distributions of Certain Statistics, J.L. Doob, 1938](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/LimitingDistributionsOfCertainStatisticsDoob1938.pdf)

[On Stochastic and Order Relationships, H.B. Mann, A. Wald, 1943](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnStochasticLimitsAndOrderRelationshipsMann1943.pdf)

[Large Sample Tests of Statistical Hypotheses Concerning Several Parameters with Applications to Problems of Estimation, C.R. Rao, 1948](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Large_Sample_Tests_of_Statistical_Hypotheses_Concerning_Several_Parameters_with_Applications_to_Problems_of_Estimation_Rao_1948.pdf)

[The Monte Carlo Method, Nicholas Metropolis, S. Ulam, 1949](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MetropolisUlam_TheMonteCarloMethod.pdf)

[Empirical Bayes Approach to Statistics, Herbert Robbins, Columbia U., 1956](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Empirical_Bayes_Approach_to_Statistics_Robbins_Columbia_1956.pdf)

[On Transformation of Characteristic Functions, Eugene Lukasz, 1957](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTransformationOfAnalyticsFunctionsLukacs1957.pdf)

[On the Arithmetical Properties of Certain Entire Analytical Functions, Eugene Lukasz, 1966](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/OnTheArithmeticPropertiesOfCertainEntireAnalyticFunctionsLukacs.pdf)

[Man as an Intuitive Statistician, C.R. Peterson, L.R. Beach, 1967](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Man_as_an_Intuitive_Statistician_Peterson_Beach_1967.pdf)

[The Empirical Characteristic Function and Its Applications, Andrey Feuerverger, Roman A. Mureika, 1977](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/EmpiricalCharacteristicFunctionAndItsApplicationsFeuerverger1977.pdf)

[MaximumLikelihood from Incomplete Data via the EM Algorithm, A. P. Dempster, N. M. Laird, D. B. Rubin, 1977](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MaximumLikelihood_from_Incomplete_Data_via_the_EM_Algorithm_Dempster77.pdf)

[Central Limit Theorems for Empirical Measures, R.M. Dudley, MIT, 1978](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/CentralLimitTheoremForEmpiricalMeasuresDudley1978.pdf)

[The Likelihood Ratio, Wald, and Lagrange Multiplier Tests, A. Buse, 1982](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/The_Likelihood_Ratio_Wald_and_Lagrange_Multiplier_Tests_Buse_1982.pdf)

[An Introduction to Likelihood Analysis, Andrew Pickl, 1985](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/BayesianLinearModeling/introduction-likelihood-analysis-Pickles-1985.pdf)

[Conversation with Persi Diaconis on Statistical Science, Morris H. DeGroot, 1986](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Conversation_with_Persi_Diaconis_DeGroot_1986.pdf)

[Tweedie's Formula and Selection Bias, Vradley Efron, Stanford U., 2011](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Tweedies_Formula_and_Selection_Bias_Effron_Stanford_2011.pdf)

[Cross-validatory Choice and Assessment of Statistical Prediction, M. Stone, University College London, 1974](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Cross-validatory_Choice_and_Assessment_of_Statistical_Predictions_Stone1974.pdf)

[Autoregressive Moving Average Model, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoregressive_moving-average_model)

[Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average Model, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoregressive_integrated_moving_average)

[Autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity with estimates of the variance of United Kingdom inflation, R. Engle, 1982](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Autoregressive_conditional_heteroscedasticity_with_estimates_of_the_variance_of_United_Kingdom_inflation_Engle_1982.pdf)

[Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity Process, Tim Bollerslev, 1986](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/GARCH_Bollerslev_1986.pdf)

[Tensors in Algebraic Statistics, L. Sierra, M. Casanellas, P. Zwiernik, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Tensors_in_algebraic_statistics_Sierra_2024.pdf)

[Approximations and Sampling of Multivariate Probability Distributions, S. Dolgov et al, 2019](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/books/ApproximationandSamplingofMultivariateProbabilityDistributions.pdf)


### Baysian Linear Models

[Bayesian Analysis of Linear Models, Chapter 1, Lyle Broemeling, 1985](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/BayesianLinearModeling/BayesianAnalysisOfLinearModels_Broemeling_Chap1_1985.pdf)

[Lecture Notes on Linear Regression, Danillo Petti, U. of Essex, 2023-2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/lecture_notes/Lecture_notes_in_Linear_Regression_Danilo_Petti_2023.pdf)

### Mixture Modeling

[An Overview of Gaussian Mixture Models, Massimiliano Patachiolla, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/An_overview_of_Gaussian_Mixture_Models.pdf)

[Multivariate Normal Variance Mixtures, Eric Hintz et al, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Multivariate_Normal_Variance_Mixtures_Eric_Hintz_2024.pdf)

[Expectation Maximization algorithms for Multivariate Gaussian Mixture Models with Truncated and Censored Data, G. Lee, C. Scott, 2010](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/EM_algorithms_for_multivariate_Gaussian_mixture_models_with_truncated_and_censored_data_Lee_2010.pdf)

[Fit a Multivariate Gaussian Mixture Model by Using the Expectation Maximization Algorithm: the DO Loop, Rick Wicklin, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Fit_a_multivariate_Gaussian_mixture_model_by_using_the_expectation-maximization_algorithm-The_DO_Loop.pdf)

[Scale Mixtures of Normals, Andy Jones, 2024](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/MixtureModeling/Scale_mixture_of_normals_Andy_Jones.pdf)

### Causality

[Correlation and Causation, Sewall Wright, 1921](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Correlation_and_Causation_Wright_1921.pdf)

[A natural experiment on the effect of herpes zoster vaccination on dementia, Markus Eyting et al, Nature, 2025](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Causality/A_natural_experiment_on_the_effect_of_herpes_zoster_vaccination_on_dementia_Eyting_2025.pdf)

### Econometrics

[An MCMC Approach to Classical Estimation, Victor Chernozhukov, Han Hong, 2023](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/An_MCMC_Approach_to_Classical_Estimation_Chrnozhukov_2023.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometrics, Victor Chernozhukov, 2003](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/Bayesian_Econometrics_Chernozhukov.pdf)

[Bayesian Econometric Methods, Joshua Chan et al, 2020](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/Econometrics/Bayesian_Econometric_Methods_Chan_2020.pdf)

## Statistical Distributions

[Laplace Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laplace_distribution)

[Cauchy Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution)

[Erlang Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erlang_distribution)

[Chi-squared distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chi-squared_distribution)

[Gamma distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma_distribution)

[Student t-distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Student%27s_t-distribution)

[Beta distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beta_distribution)

[Multivariate Gaussian Distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_normal_distribution)

[Multivariate Student t distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_t-distribution)

[Mulitvariate Laplace distribution, Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multivariate_Laplace_distribution)

[Skew-normal distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skew_normal_distribution)

[A Generalization of the Skew-Normal Distribution - the Beta Skew-normal, V. Mamelli, M. Musio, 2011](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/StatisticalDistributions/A_Generalization_of_the_Skew-Normal_Distribution-the_Beta_Skewnormal_Mameli_2011.pdf)

[Skew-normal Posterior Approximations, J. Zhou et al, 2023](https://github.com/dimitarpg13/probabilistic_machine_learning/blob/main/applied_statistics/articles/StatisticalDistributions/Skew-Normal_Posterior_Approximations_Zhou_2023.pdf)
